(Act)Acceptance and commitment(stuck but not broken). 
Relational frame theory
Act deeply rooted to rft
Emotion(shortlisting like cloud in sky) vs feeling(long last)
mind fullness= conscious+full awareness


Experiential avoidance: avoid to go invited party
Cognitive fusion( cognitive entanglement):whether do do or not ,fusion of thoughts in mind, one negative thought lead to think other past negative thought and counterproductive in life.
Psychological rigidity(inflexibility):difficult to accept belief and values opposing him/her belief
Cognition delusion: thinking + separate ourself from negative thought and un pop them
Observing self not thinking self(monkey mind)
Happiness trap oxymorons,  Experiential avoidance
Acceptance(bad or good thought) vs letting go(we cannot change eg behavior of others)
Cloud in sky 
Your values are more important than your goal because you might not reach your goal.

Entangled(twisted relation), maliciously( दुर्भावनापूर्ण रूपमा), transpires((of a secret or something unknown) come to be known; be revealed.), turbulence(turmoil), equanimity(tranquillity), skewed(biased), values, supersede(take the place of (a person or thing previously in authority or use)), cherish(protect and care for (someone) lovingly.), temperament(स्वभाव, character, nature), biorhythms(a recurring cycle in the physiology or functioning of an organism, such as the daily cycle of sleeping and waking.), incessant(निरन्तर, continue, unceasing)  

Suppression of thought, rebound effect more you suppress more you think, eg think about white bear and not to think about white bear in two group. repression
repression =avoiding by doing other activity.
Suppression= stoping to come those thought


Introspection: thinking about things that happen to you with an attitude of curiosity and self exploration. Nostalgia and sentimentality. Labeled negative which gives emotional sadness. Introspection let you reach valuable conclusion. lighthearted activity.
Enjoyable


Rumination: mental activity based on regrets. Thinking what could have done differently. Don’t lead valuable conclusion. Waste time energy making confusion, tired.
Bitterness


Rumination should change into introspection. Stop ruminating. 



Metaphors figure of speech
1 passenger on the bus:
2 the struggle switch
3 thinking your mind
4 positive thinking and cognitive thinking


Meanings
malicious(malice intention to do evil), rapport(relationship in which the people or groups concerned understand each other's feelings or ideas and communicate well), salvation(redemption), maladaptive, slogan, subside, extortion(he practice of obtaining something, especially money, through force or threats.), fluffy(covered with fluff, hairy), intrusive, perspiration(sweat), endure(suffer patiently सहनशील), prompt(encourage, प्रेरित), torment(anguish), amusement(funny, entertaining), revulsion(disgust, loathing), conservative, apprehensive(anxious, fearful for something bad will happen),  enact, reassuring(serving or intended to remove someone's doubts or fears.), predispose(make someone liable or inclined to a specified attitude, action, or condition.,  being likely to have an illness that your mother and father both had.),  debilitating((of a disease or condition) making someone very weak and infirm.), pounder(think about (something) carefully, especially before making a decision or reaching a conclusion.), entangle(intertwine), paradox(contradictory), preconceived((of an idea or opinion) formed before having the evidence for its truth or usefulness, prejudged), 




