First aid
1 cpr(CPR)
 Triangle of life: circulatory system , respiratory system, nervous system depend and supply each other
 Give car fake heart to cardiac arrest patient to keep blood flow by chest compression
When our heart stops beating in medical language called clinical death. In clinical death heart beat monitor seems flat line and is not permanent death. Can save using cpr. But after 4 to 6min patient start permanent brain damage after clinical death. Cells can regenerate if not permanent damaged so cpr should be done. Bystander effect no one will do so point to call 911.
Agonal gasps(agonal breathing, even if he have no pulse and he is clinically death, he try to move and breath).if someone heart isn’t beat he don’t breath so look chest rather mouth.
Hands only cpr. 
Doing CPR using AED(automated external Defibrillator) 
Cardiac arrest vs heart attack


Paramedic, sterilized fluid  meaning google, splinting, ASAP, 


2 perform Heimlich maneuver for person chocking.
3 direct pressure to stop bleeding. There is also indirect pressure. Applying bandage. Tourniquets. Tie bandage strong to stop bleeding but check pulse so , it shouldn’t stop blood flow as this is not tourniquet. Use Israeli bandage for rather or make nutted handkerchief and wrap around bandage pointing knot on top of injury.
Using tourniquet(indirect pressure) meaning we completely cutting blood flow and cells from reaching oxygen.
Bandaging is different from direct and indirect pressure with bandaging we not try stop bleeding.

4 trauma(physical injuries):
Look for spinal damage

5 Climatic injuries
1 hot climate: heat stroke, dehydration, hyperthermia(egg white solid permanent dangerous, apathetic, disoriented, seizure), epilepsy attack, air conditioner, don’t workout in hot summer. Hyperthermia happens when body temperature rectal temperature is above 40c and oral temperature above 39.5c.
Blood lost= Weaker pulse = hypothermia= cold rectal vs oral temperature
2 cold climate:frostbite(peripheral organs, direct heat not good idea rather heat other feel), hypothermia, hypothermia happens when body temperature rectal temperature is drops below 35c and oral temperature below 35.5c. mild hypothermia(shivering, body can defend), sever hypothermia(no shivering, body cannot defend) , no alcohol misconceptions, don’t drink too much in cold places.

6 burn:our skin has 3 layer, most upper layer called epidermis(made from dead cells). 2nd layer called dermis. 3rd layer called hypodermis. 2nd degree layer burn blisters are signs, unto 4th degree burn. Blood loss due to burn, hypothermia due to blood loss, inhalation injuries(burning house use mask as you inhale smoke it develops blockage), for serious burn don’t apply ice as he may have gone hypothermia.

7 fractures(dis consistent bone surface) , sprains(over stretching ligaments in our joint), dislocation(end of bone comes out of natural place):  sign are swelling, pain, sensitivity to touch, shape, shade. Limit movement, splinting should comfort patient, paracetamol painkiller pills if they don’t have allergies, evacuate to hospital, Tourniquets, splint, bandage areas if open fracture. Good first provider is good improviser. 

8 head injuries:  sign of skull fracture are raccoon eye, battle signs, CSF(brain floats doesn’t touch the skulls unless forced hit) fluid from nose or ear,  loosely bandage,  
Inner head injuries : two type general impact(concussions, when our brain touch side of skull that is also called concussion, general impact injury, can cause focused head impact ie internal bleeding), focused impact(internal bleeding)

9 stroke : two reason rapture of blood vessels to bleed into brain or blood clot blocking once blood flow blocked the part of brain cells start to die, numbness, tingling sensation, fast method to know patient has stroke, f= one side face drooping, a= one arm weakness, s=confused speech, t= time to call for help, 

10 asthma attack: narrowing of airway inside of lungs, usually happens due to some sort of trigger eg allergic reaction, cold may cause it, or even due to exposed in smoke, but some patient have asthma attack with even noticeable trigger or without trigger. Mild vs severe attacks, signs breathlessness, wheezing, tight chest, bluish finger tips and lips due to lack of oxygen, inhaler shaking and sprains take out his breath air emptied lung patient and slow breath while taking inhaler, take him away from trigger, make sit him upright, hand back to head, make him focus in slow deep breadth, 

11 epilepsy(general): seizures(increase electrical activity in brain), more than spasming(specific), partial vs generalized seizures, petit Mal, grand Mal, triggers are flashing light, loud noises, stress, hunger, lack of sleep, lack of oxygen, alcohol etc    

12 fainting(passing out): happens due to sudden decrease in blood pressure, body try balance to supply blood to brain so person faint, make person leg up.
13 allergies: overreaction to immune system which is harmless, sign skin rash, itching, runny nose, sneezing, nausea/vomiting, swell, fast pulse, anaphylaxis, epipen syringe,

14 animal bits(stings):venom, rabies, bleeding, allergies, incubation period, stray vs wild animal, splint, don’t be Indiana Jones don’t use indirect pressure ie tourniquet ,don’t cut area of injury, don’t try suck out venom, don’t put ice in area of bite, 

15 diabetes: hyperglycamia, 
Z-fold bandage put inside wound hole applying pressure and wrapped with direct pressure eg in butt, sholdier where you cannot put tourniquet on patient.


Where person loss some(partial conscious) or all(unconscious) reflexes(which help detect and take immediate action to danger, help defend for body) 

Phrasal verbs








