Investment banking

Deposit, underwriting debt and equity, advisory on mergers and acquisition, largest m&a transaction of 2021, largest non tech IPO in history and how much money raised and todays market cap of that company, largest international investment bank in the world, difference between business model of commercial and investment bank, commercial + investment bank= universal banks, What It Means to Own a Seat on the NYSE, average return of bonds and stock, stocks are riskier but create of return in high in long run, how much % mark jukerburg hold of Facebook, investment horizon, investment banker try to stabilize to make it seem balance for both investor and company because both trust bank and bank don’t want one benefit over other. 


Growing economy requires investors and concept of investment banking emerged for security underwriting like bond. Government issue bond fraction and sell them to investors or investment bank as they don’t know how to price bond and negotiate. Buying government debt have problems like default or renegotiate and thus investment bank have power not to allow raise new capital for new project of such states and which raise their reputation to link top tier investors with bond & equity issuers as quality of security aligned with reputation. Rothschild a reputed investment banker knew napoleon defeated waterloo before government did and promptly start buying British government debt and next day price of bond soared.

Know difference of commercial vs investment bank lines of service. commercial bank make money from spread, which is difference between interest they charge to borrowers and interest they pay to depositors which is main source of their revenue.  
Universal bank for one stop shop. Investment bank has wide range of financial product like underwriting debt and equity, advisory on mergers and acquisition, trading/(proprietary/brokerage) and asset management. 

Research department examine stocks and recommend client. Buy company shares with bank money or client money then what bank choose to save first during financial crisis of company. 

m & a consolidation wave. M and A transaction achieve economy of scale by horizontal merge discarded by antitrust law due to monopolization so to increase profit margin started vertical integration, formation of conglomerates diversifying operation targeting multiple industries,  hostile takeover and leverage buyout wave, international expansion, dot com bubble burst, private equity and LBO transaction, global financial crisis, bankruptcy, government took additional debt to stabilize economy and converted financial crisis to sovereign debt crisis, many country defaulted or on the brink of un sustainability, IPO that should have been bigger but cannot happen Saudi Aramco with market valuation of 2 trillion, banking syndicate was formed and discuss on where to list the company taken place, Saudi government decided to call off the listing procedures and wait for optimal moment to list share, high market volatility and uncertainty not been ideal to list, and price improved and deficit occurs by petrol price down and listing pos[pond indefinitely into future, 

A leveraged buyout (LBO) occurs when the buyer of a company takes on a significant amount of debt as part of the purchase. The buyer will use assets from the purchased company as collateral and plan to pay off the debt using future cash flow. In a leveraged buyout, the buyer takes a controlling interest in the company. 

Venture capital arm, market cap, IPO, wait for optimal moment to list Saudi Armco share, 

4 main area of investment banking ie 4 underwriting services are capital markets, advisory services including m&a and restructuring, trading and brokerage, asset management. capital market is needed when company about to go public. When firm issue equity we talk about ECM equity capital market and when firm issue debt we talk about DCM debt capital market. Company going public must increase its administrative and financial staff and require to prepare several financial reports and documents not require for private firm. For IPO timing plays critical role guided by investment bank ie company must be ready in terms of size, profitability, administration, growth potential and solid management for positioning to attracting investors. Investment bank determines price of shares and try to stabilize the share price using some instrument for first few days on market. SEO are used to list company by issue more share on market after it has already gone public and much easier process as company has already gone public, shares has price, already created documents compliance with financial regulation, investment banker have only role to find investors. DCM(debt capital market) is another underwriting securities, this debt securities are Called bonds offering which is not different from equity offering main difference is bond can be issued by sovereign countries ie governments ie not only companies and interest rate is provided throughout issuance of bond. Bonds are easier to price than equity as every company or governments issuing bond have credit rating provided by independent credit rating agency. Another form of DCM services are loan syndication ie loan granted by pool of bank as server bank in syndicate get portion of the loan. Syndicate loans are hybrid between bond and commercial banking loans.   
Zynga created FarmVille Facebook most popular game and 90% revenue company gain  from Facebook, when company listed for IPO raised 1 billion.

Advisory service like transaction m&a and debt restructuring service, acquisition when company buy share or asset of another company and merger when buying company absorb the target company and ceases to exist after transaction. Buying company offer compensation like cash or stock of new entity or both to shareholder Called consideration. Investment banker provide service to several firm from particular industry or many industries they operate like finding bidders or targets, and they can be in buying or selling side depend on who hire them. Most investment bank want to be in sell side as transaction is likely and commission is sure by finding bidders, valuation of company, minimum bidding price and work closely with advisor of bidding firm. if they are in buy side they have complicated fee like retainer and success fee.
Restructuring advisory services are necessary when firm is in danger to go bankrupt which is tough service of company distress, due to operational or financial difficulties. Two main alternative are private workout or bankruptcy procedure in court. Lenders prefer private workout and bank provide recovery business plan, 
Interesting transaction Facebook spend 22 billion dollar to acquire WhatsApp at that time WhatsApp revenue is 10 million dollar and company was loosing 135 millions dollar per year.

Trading and brokerage. Trading with own money proprietary trading ie bank money while trading securities on behalf of client brokerage. Research department help in strategy, investment bank play very important role for the liquidity of financial market, very often they support trading of less liquid securities by applying market making technique which consist buying small number of securities and being ready to sell this securities to customer when they place an order. Investment bank earn substantial spread by providing this service. Investment bank trade equity(share), fixed income(bond), derivative contract(forward, futures, options, swap), some of the derivatives are used for hedging purposes by company in order to reduce risk and some for speculative reasons.

How much does it cost to Own a Seat on the NYSE

Asset management
Asset manager manages client investment ie using client money to make more money. Individual or institution having substantial income approaches this division, asset classes are stocks, bonds, commodities, real estate, private equity. Asset management build investment portfolio on basis of client need on broad range  of asset classes like stocks(small cap, large cap, blue chip, dividend stock, BRIC country stocks), bonds(short maturity, long maturity, corporate, government), commodities, real estate, and other alternative investment like private equity and hedge fund.


Not every bank engage in all 4 activities but some global players offer all four service. So following 4 banking strategy in specific niche global investment banks, banks that focus on financial market services, wholesale banking, boutique advisory firms. 1 Global investment bank have expertise in all 4 area, they have size to underwrite equity and debt offering, network to place this securities, competency to provide m&a and restructuring services. 2 some bank focus  on financial market service like corporate lending or stock brokerage and this bank are not active as advisors. 3 wholesale banking are intended for large institutional entities like governments, pension funds, large corporates and banks. Cash management, large loan and interbank lending are services of wholesale banks where capital available is crucial for wholesale bank. Boutique advisory firm has become popular in investment banking industry as it is easy to establish and less capital intensive to setup with advisory services. 


 ##Transactional(like barber shop many but less paying customer for limited service less time to serve) vs relationship investment banking(like costly hairstylist salon limited but high paying premium customer for broad services more time to serve and time investment with rich people before they become customer):
     Two approaches of investment banking strategy to interact client,  transactional based banking is usually preferred route, investment bankers, advisory banks are relationship based. Transactional vs relationship investment banking


Equity capital market, why company go public(IPO) by public equity offering, for growth, after listing share in stock exchange it get’s traded daily and each share gets the market value, easy to value the entire firm, so company can buy other smaller company with its stock as they have price on market, listed companies are preferred partners of many business out there, going public gives reputation, visibility, critical dimensions, Cristal clear financial reporting, vote of confidence by large investors, nowadays manager receive stock as compensation which act as incentive to increase stock price, share are sold to skilled investor who can provide value, 


Investors in IPO can be 1 of 3: retail investor(private individual, to diversify income, invest lower amount, subject to transaction cost due to brokerage and high bid ask spread), institutional investor(entities like mutual and pension fund and insurance company), hedge funds(investment vehicle, mainly interested in trading underpriced and over priced securities, their investment horizon is short, making educated bet profiting and closing). All 3 types of investors differ based on investment horizon(long or short term), return expiration, risk profile and sophistication.  They want to buy stock of company having market leadership, strong management, solid financial position, very high level of visibilities and disclosure, fast liquidity in secondary market, investor want interesting valuation ie valuation at discount which provide incentive to place order. Investment banker like retail and institutional investors. Almost always they try to allocate some share to retail investor as retail demand create momentum in book building process and they hold for longest which is very valuable to create market stable. It is bankers goal to find investor who sticks with company for long. As hedge fund will dump the stock as soon as they can so investment banker don’t like as they create instability.

IPO process last between 4 to 6 months, in end of process pricing become more anxious, key goal to provide discount to trading value of company for investor happiness, technique to value share discounted cash flow valuation, multiples valuation, nobody want to conduct IPO when financial market is turbulent and all shares are going down so economy play role, many IPO are cancelled in 2008 when global financial crisis erupted, investor tell bank how many IPO they willing to buy at what price, this process is called book building, ideal pricing= reasonable discount to trading value, book of demand is invaluable, consider the limit from anchor order and investor, 

Steps to carry IPO have two phase 1 pre lunch and 2 execution: hire advisor for due diligence(legal advisor, tax advisor, industry advisor, financial advisor) giving legal problem, financial reporting system, advisor advises key issue to address before go public, drafting of exhaustive prospectus after first valuation, 
Investor sticks with company who sticks with IPO are chooses so, supports the price of stock listed on  stock exchange, final stage is actual listing of share for trade.

It is not efficient to work with single investment bank, more bank in syndicate bigger chance for attracting important investor, syndicate has hierarchical structure, at top we have global coordinators(20%), after that we have role of book runners(20%), and then cold lead managers(60% commission). Larger the company and its value less commission percentage for investment banks.

Pre IPO research document before prospectus is preliminary assessment done by bank pre marketing is done. When investment banker and firm have decided on maximum IPO price, then retail offering begins, during that time book building process ends, DCF valuation, trading of comparable companies, market sentiment, ownership goal, book of demand for better IPO price.

Technique investment bank uses for first several days of company listing on stock market called stabilization to ensure company price remain stable after IPO,
People doing Short position take advantage of falling of share price, they borrow share from shareholder and sell on the market and after som time they buy again so that, to give borrowed share to shareholder and take advantage of falling price. Long term they invest for longer time benefit.
 

Day of IPO can be success or failure but investment banker try to stabilize positive performance to the market, if IPO sold at too high then investor will be disappointed and many try abandon it, which drive down price lower due to many seller. If the share price skyrocket it means investment banker don’t value company properly, to stabilize on the day of IPO investment bank sell more share than it has underwritten, it sell shares it does not own, underwriting means buying shares from company to resell them to investors immediately, it sells additional quantity of shares called over allotment, Of course this create short position(borrow for taking advantage of price fall) for share sold but not owned. So, investment bank need to go to market to buy borrowed shares in order to give them back to company ownership and this will be nice protection for the falling stock price but for rising stock price this can be risk for investment bank because investment bank will loose considerable amount lending at opening price ie low and buying at high. Hence additional mechanism need to be place, in most case issuer grants the investment bank a free call option. A call option gives the investment bank right but not the obligation to purchase share at a given price. So if price goes up, investment bank would be able to exercise its call option and buy shares from company ownership at same price at which they sold shares(IPO) to the market this call option frequently referred as green shoe . After green shoe, buy shares from market give back the shares to issuing company. 

IPO vs SEO vs FPO vs private placement

Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) ebitda

4 type of bond issued by company or government in debt capital market. 1 fixed rate bond(predetermined rate of return, fixed interest rate, at end of maturity complete reimbursement), 2 floating rate bond(interest rate fluctuate over time), 3 equity related bond(interest rate can be converted to equity at certain condition), 4 asset backed securities(bond offered by project vehicles, credit card receivables, mortgage loan, car loan). Bond have small interest rate than bank loans, less convenient for bond than loan, bank don’t want to take huge risk gambling on single firm so they diversify using bond rather than bank loan or loan syndication can be solution for abundant loan amount with distributed risk.

Bond offering similar to equity offering, bond are easy to issue than equity mainly because firms are credit rated, form syndicate, credit rating agency do due diligence, multiple credit rating agency are contacted for further better bond price, interest rate, spread, maturity of issuance, bookbinding, underwrite and sell, role of book runner bank don’t end here it need provide stabilization service lasting around 10 days by over allotment of securities.

Junk bond, like giving loan to poor for large interest, high yield bond, debt securities of lower quality compared to normal investment grade bonds, they have very low credit rating, more likely to default, non investment grade companies, non investment grade government and non investment grade government entities in need of fund and opting for junk bond issuance, urgency of finance is the result issuing junk bond, 

Securitization products evolve and change overtime due to changing regulatory environment, in securitization group of loans or receivables are collected in a vehicle called SVP(special purpose vehicle), this repackaged assets are resoled to investors, (capital adequacy ratio<equity/loan for bank to not under capitalized ), repackaging of loans should function like bond where investors invest on repackaged loans,  each of the loan in package have predetermined schedule of payment, investors will be paid for amount contained in this payment plan, and thus by securitization bank transfer risk for loans to investors, why would investor be interested in these securities, as it allow to invest them in new asset class and diversify there portfolio.  Pension fund invest in this class.
Decrease risk weighted asset is securitization, asset backed security, loan syndication, 

When we talk about loan syndication Project finance is one financed by pool of banks. For specific project financing not a firm financing. Project finance consist in using non recourse or limited recourse financial structure.  Project sponsors create SPV(special purpose vehicle) financed with equity and then lender provide debt financing, to prevent moral hazard from project sponsors lender prepares massive contract. Rules in such contracts called covenant. In such after completion lenders are satisfied first and only equity investor receive any dividends. If firm is doomed or d, lender cannot make recourse towards other asset owned by project sponsor. 









Later in course you will learn DCF, multiples and LBO valuation types of company.

Accommodating on accommodation
Decoy duck
inquisition
spooked
treason
A recourse is a legal agreement that gives the lender the right to pledged collateral if the borrower is unable to satisfy the debt obligation.