Manipulation in politics
1 consistency manipulation:
  Consistency trap(word/action), we don’t contradict ourself. eg charity may get you sign a petition. If you sign you would most likely to donate and take further action in future. 
  Terms of service, NGOs, clarifying words., escalation of commitment with both donors and voters, ask to wear batch, ask to sign, ask them to vote and ramp up more and more.
2 emotional manipulation:
    Make them feel guilty., bully, make feel pity and clemency, attention seek,
    In politics broadcast message create anticipation for positive outcome which fear population to take action, politicians promise,  
3 (perceived) effort manipulation:
   If someone can manipulate how much effect something seems to be they change their action. Convenience word or low effort word. If you say something is quick, simple        or easy even if it isn’t its going to seem to be easy and people more likely to do it. 
2/3 of effort people make is perceived not real effort
Eg running person a; have to have cloth, shoe, better environment etc. person b; I have to go
Word used to manipulate sign up now, easy, instant access, reduce option, explain how easy is to carry something which have same or more benefit.
Eg software product, faq, Steve Jobs “I will talk 2 things even if it is one hrs session”
In politics to make promises seem less effortful or competitor harder,  
4 standard manipulation:
Have two different standard two different people , project or  event. Only works when manipulator is not transparent and there is no way two person given separate /standard communicate.  Standard hidden not comparable.
5 pressure manipulation: 
Deadline, intimidation, scarcity, urgency, bluffing, escalation dominance, people retaliate if this manipulation is used.
In politics climate change, stirring the pot, panting darkest picture in people mind, illustrating scarcity eg if this bill not passed you will have to survive or suffer this.

6 identification manipulation :
Faking commonality, or using empathy, eg salesmen or real state agent saying you like this football team I like as  well, faking to make more identified by you. Fabricating commonalities, we like people who are similar to us, diary emotion of. Someone by talking about that eg you are angry? Talk about it.
Mirroring
Politician use the word I was doing job as you with my father and it is hard to carry.

7 fact manipulation:
Lying facts, obscuring them, change fact, used if there no proper fact
Politics changing data or making obfuscating data.

8 context manipulation :
We have tendency to look at other things to determine the value of something. Relevant not absolute.  Comparing two book on price but book title or type changed, expensive book not seemed to expensive. 
Politics lower rate of unemployment then past government

9 labeling manipulation:
When you attribute or name label to something, you can change its perspective to others. Eg your pet name or nickname according to your work and nature. Stereotype, eg saying robot to person who do work repetitively. Label can be faked or obfuscated to make it more or less important. news fake title. 
 Unfavorable name to opponent in politics. Label can be given by politician to themself. 





Jargon for me being non native speaker:
temptation(प्रलोभन), bashing(कुटपिट गर्ने), stereotype, obscure(uncertain),
 preoccupation(obsession), fabricate(बनावटी), 
stirring( rousing, exciting, or thrilling ), 
segue(to move from one topic to another from one topic to another), retaliate(fight back),
 bluff(try to deceive someone as to one's abilities or intentions.), stifle(suffocate), 
soaring(flying or rising high in the air.), skewed(distortion or asymmetry that deviates from the symmetrical ), 
counterintuitive(contrary), vague, fabricate, escalation, ramping up , petition(a formal written request, 
typically one signed by many people, appealing to authority in respect of a particular cause.), subsequent, plough, 
embellish, obfuscating, intimidation



1 consistency manipulation:
2 emotional manipulation:
3 (perceived) effort manipulation:
4 standard manipulation:
5 pressure manipulation: 
6 identification manipulation :
7 fact manipulation:
8 context manipulation :
9 labeling manipulation: